
---
layout: post
title: 'First Success - Victor Palciauskas Tournament'
categories: '[ chess, correspondence chess, tournament ]'
excerpt: Delve into my recent success in the Victor Palciauskas Tournament, a USCF correspondence chess event where I secured an undefeated victory. Explore my favorite game from the tournament and the strategic maneuvers that led to my triumph.
tags: [correspondence chess, USCF, success]
date: 2023-08-12T07:00:00+00:00
---

In today's blog, I share an achievement that marks my first taste of success after returning to chess and changing my opening strategy to Reti as White. The spotlight shines on the Victor Palciauskas Tournament, a USCF correspondence chess event with a special place in my journey.

Participating in the Victor Palciauskas Tournament, section 21VP04, was a litmus test.

The culmination of effort and determination resulted in an undefeated 6-0 score, a testament to the hours spent analyzing positions, predicting opponent moves, and crafting calculated responses. The tournament's significance extended beyond victory; it marked a milestone with a triumph that invigorated my passion for chess.

Amidst the successes, there was a game that stood out—due to tactics and strategy that showcased the competition. Let's delve into my favorite game from the Victor Palciauskas Tournament, a clash against Matt LaDuke.

The game unfolded with White orchestrating a clever expansion in the center with move 10. c5, strategically pushing Black's King Knight back. White then boldly sacrificed a pawn with move 13. e6, setting the stage for a dynamic sequence of maneuvers. A knight sacrifice followed, with the promise of two instruments and the potential for a strong attack.

In response, Black devised a counterplan, offering an Exchange to counteract White's aggressive intentions. A series of imbalances ensued, culminating in the capture of a Rook and three pawns in exchange for a Bishop and Knight. The advantage was seized, and the endgame witnessed the emergence of two connected passed pawns skillfully maneuvered to secure victory.

The Victor Palciauskas Tournament celebrated success and marked a profound step in my chess journey as a senior. It highlighted the rewards of strategic thinking, persistence, and the joy of outmaneuvering opponents over the virtual board. Reflecting on this accomplishment, I am reminded that retirement from the corporate world is only the beginning of a new chapter enriched by chess conquests.

Stay tuned for more insights, stories, and lessons from the correspondence chess world.

> **Note:** [Subscribe to receive updates](https://follow.it/senior-chess-improver?leanpub)
